Magic Realm Setup:


Visitor/Mission Chits:

1-2 encounter: crone, warlock, shaman, scholar
3+ encounter: 2 others (TBD)


Map Chits:

8 gold-colored site chits
10 red sound chits
20 yellow warning chits: 5 each of V, W, C, M

Lost City, Lost Castle: 5 random site/sound chits each

.


Newbie's Guide to Magic Realm:

This is a distilled summary of the Magic Realm rules for new players.
It is primarily designed to get new players up to speed quickly (hopefully 
along with with more experienced players who know how to setup the board).

The game rules are divided into four sections, called Encounters. There are
also Advanced and Optional rules.


Encounter 1:

Rolling Dice: 

Roll two dice, pick the highest result.


Picking a Character:

Choose one of the following (the rest are at a disadvantage in this encounter):

Amazon
	starts in Inn.
Dward
	starts at Guard House or Inn.
Swordsman
	starts at Inn.
White Knight
	Starts at Inn or Chapel.
Wizard
	starts at Inn, House, or Guard House.
Woods Girl
	starts at Inn or House.

Get character card, counter (large round counter), all 12 action chits, and weapon
and armor counters listed in fourth (final) development stage (only those).

Get a Personal History Pad (PHP), write down your character's special advantages.
Choose dwelling where character will start and victory conditions (secretly).


Victory Requirements:

Choose 5 points total and distribute them among the four categories.
They represent what is most important to the character.
Characters get a bonus for exceeding these requirements, and are penalized for 
failing to meet them.

TODO: computing victory points, winning


Ending the Game:

Characters may leave the may or suicide.
If character leaves the map, compute score immediately. 

At the end of the game, characters discard all items they cannot carry.
Count up the score in each category and subtract requirement recorded. If < 0, 
multiply by 3 as a penalty.

Basic score: divide each category by its factor (round down).
Bonus score: multiply basic score in each category by victory points assigned.
Total score: sum of all basic and bonus scores.

Each character who has a total score of 0 has fulfilled victory requirements
and can be said to have won the game. 

Victor is character with most points. There may be a victor without a winner!


Activities:

Each character gets one turn per day to do activities.
Characters can perform one action per phase.
If character spends whole day outside of caves, he gets four phases. 
Otherwise, he only gets two.

The day is divided into these phases:
  TODO: Daily Sequence of Play


You may pick one activity per phase. 
The following activities must be recorded in advance in the activity section of the PHP
during Birdsong:

Move, Search, Hide, Rest, Trade (with natives/visitors), 
Enhanced Peer (must have special item).

The following can be done in the Evening:
Trade (between characters), Arrange Belongings, Block.


Move:
  Must move from clearing to clearing, one clearing at a time.

  To record, write "M <tile> <clearing>", where tile can be an abbreviation
  and clearing is the number. Example: M NW-2 to move to second clearing of Nut Woods.
  To avoid ambiguity, use 'CG' for Crag, 'CL' for Cliff, 'CS' for Caves, 'CN' for 
  Cavern.

  May play a move chit whenever leaving a clearing (this is not fatigued), 
  or active horse or Boots card. Any of these can be played each move.
    The strength of this chit must meet or exceed the heaviest item the character has,
	else the character must drop the heavy item(s) (he cannot choose not to move 
	if the move was plotted in advance).
  
  Mountain:
    Costs two movements (consecutive, during same day) to enter mountain clearing.

  Cave:
    Cannot enter cave during day in which character used sunlight activity.

  Horses:
    Horses which are active are being ridden, else they are pack horses and follow 
	character. Horses cannot enter caves (immediately become inactive).

    To get move bonus, must have horse active during Birdsong and active when he
	executes the phase during Daylight.

    Warhorse: not extra movement
	Pack horse: one extra move phase
	Pony: double move phases




Search:
  May pick which table to use (Peer, Locate, Loot).

Hide:
  Characters are hidden at start of game.
  Characters are unhidden at start of each turn.
  To record, write 'H'.
  To hide, roll dice and check the Hide table. If successful, turn counter green side up.
  Hidden characters are green side up (tan means unhidden).
  Hidden characters can do activities. If they block, they are immediately unhidden.
  Monsters cannot block hidden characters.
  Natives and visitors can block charater if he rolls on Meeting Table (even if hidden).
	
Rest:
  To record, write 'R'.
  May activate one fatigued asterisk or convert one wounded asterisk to a
  fatigued asterisk after each rest activity. May exchange chits to 'make change'.

  TODO: fatigue, wounds


Trade:
  To record, write 'T'.
  May buy one item or sell any number of items during each trade activity.
  May buy natives drinks to (hopefully) improve success during trading. This costs 
  one gold per member of the group.

  Characters must reveal all treasure items they obtain as a result of a trade.
  TODO: repairing items, fame price, 

Arrange Items:


Blocking:
  Monsters, natives, and characters may block each other.
  Only time a character can block or be blocked is during his turn.
  When a character blocks or is blocked, his turn ends instantly and he is unhidden.
  Monsters cannot block hidden characters.
  Natives and visitors can block charater if he rolls on Meeting Table (even if hidden).


Discoveries:
  Discoveries are transferable (may be sold or discovered by spying).
  
  Spying: TODO


Trade Between Characters:

Sharing Information:




Second Encounter:

Characters:
  TODO



Activites:
  Alert (TODO: must be recorded? must use up full activity?)


Combat:

  encounter:
    may play a move chit to run away or a fight chit to activate a weapon 
    (only if movement time < all monsters' times)
	if chit was not played, may activate/inactivate one belonging or abandon any 
	belongings.

  melee:
    when weapon hits, turn unalerted side up
    when weapon misses, turn alerted side up
    


